In this section, we are going to learn about how to count vowels and consonants in a string using regular
expression.
Many times you face such problems where you have to count vowels or consonants.
With a traditional approach, you can loop through a string and check each and every character, whether
it is a e, I, o, or U, and if it matches the condition, then you increment a counter to do so.
But regular expression can also be used with minimum lines of code to achieve the same.
In this case, we just have to use square brackets to give a range of characters.
You just give the characters list in the range with a global modifier that is slash G.
Also, this will check for all lowercase values.
If you want that it should work for both the cases.
Then you can ignore the case using one more modifier ie.
That is the pattern will be a E or.
G.
And of course we add an AI here.
And at the end you display the length of the match, the value array, and you get the desired output.
For counting consonants, we will negate the condition using a correct sign inside the square bracket
so the pattern will look like this.
Let's check the code first for counting vowels without modifier I.
I'll declare a string variable and just say, this is a test string.
The pattern will be aei0u inside the square bracket range.
And of course I'm giving the global modifier as well.
Now, this will actually return an array of all the matched values.
So using the match method, we will get that array, but we want the count of values.
So I'm using the length property.
Let's run the code.
So you see that it has count of all vowels in the string.
Now let's change the lowercase a to uppercase inside string and run the code.
So now it has stopped counting the Uppercase A and now let's add Modifier A and run the code to see
the correct output.
Now in the same case, imagine that we want to count consonant with this kind of code.
So in the same case, if you want to have consonants, you can use a carrot which negates the condition
that is not equal to condition.
Let's add a carrot and see the output.
So now the output is 16.
Here it calculates all white spaces as well.
Imagine that you want to avoid all white spaces.
Then in the range you can use a character class called Slash S.
Let's add slash S and see the output which calculates only consonants.
Now we have the count of all consonants in the output.
So with the regular expression in two lines, you can achieve this solution which takes a loop and other
logical code to compare vowels and consonants.